[Music]
Zero Dep add-on makes your vehicle insurance
policy even more expensive. Is there
any benefit in taking it, or are we just
paying this money to insurance companies? So, what
exactly is zero depreciation insurance?
How many zero depreciation claims can be made in a year? For how many
years do insurance companies
offer zero depreciation add-ons? For
how many years should you take it? And
if you
don't take the zero depreciation add-on to your insurance policy,
how much money can be deducted from your claim? I'm going to answer all these
questions in detail in today's video.
If you have
a car, a bike, or you're a two-wheeler
owner, the information given in today's video
can save you thousands, or should I say even lakhs, of rupees. So, let's not delay
and quickly start the video.
First of all, friends, let's
understand the meaning of zero depreciation. You already
know that zero depreciation means
wear and tear. The
loss of value of anything over time is called depreciation.  It is
said that whenever we buy a new car or a
two-wheeler, its value is very
high. As the age of this vehicle increases,
its value will also
decrease and the price of its parts will also
decrease. Suppose I have a car
which is 2 years old and this car meets with an
accident and I
file an insurance claim, then the insurance company should give
me a new part in exchange or a
2-year-old part. As per the rules, it should give me a 2-year-
old part because the entire
car is 2 years old. But is it
possible that I go to a garage or a
spare parts shop and say that
I need a 2-year-old bumper or
window, will I get the old part like this? If you do
n't get the part, then you will have to
buy a new one. So what does the insurance company
say? You can get a new part,
but according to the age of your car, we will
deduct some amount of depreciation from the total claim amount. This type
of coverage is available to you under a normal first party
comprehensive policy, that is,
when you  You don't take the depreciation add-on.
Now, there's a problem with this method.
You've bought such expensive insurance, you've taken
insurance coverage, and yet the
insurance company has deducted so much money for depreciation from your claim
amount. So, what's the point of taking insurance?
Insurance companies offer you a
zero-depreciation add-on. If you've
taken a zero-depreciation add-on to your car or bike insurance policy, then the
insurance companies wo
n't deduct the wear and tear money from your claim amount due to the vehicle being old. Whatever your approved parts are, that is,
whatever claim the insurance company has
approved,
you get a claim for the full MRP of whichever vehicle part. So, does this
mean that if you've
taken a zero-depreciation add-on in your policy, you don't have to pay even a single rupee from your pocket? No, it's not like that.
Zero
depreciation does
n't bring any additional coverage with it. Only the parts that the insurance
company has approved in your claim are covered.
Depreciation i.e. wear and tear
money will not be deducted. You get the full MRP claim.
But suppose the insurance company refuses to pay the claim for
one part of my vehicle, say a window, from the total claim amount. Even
if my
policy has zero depreciation,
I will not get the claim for that. The parts which have been
approved by my surveyor and for which the
claim has been promised, I will
get the full claim. This gives us the zero depreciation
facility. So, this means that
even after taking the zero depreciation add-on,
you may have to pay some money from your pocket,
such as file charge i.e.
processing fee.
A processing fee is charged from you for processing every claim,
which is already decided according to the engine capacity of your car or bike.
Whenever you file a claim,
you will have to pay this processing fee, even if your policy has
zero depreciation add-on.
Secondly, any repair cost which is
not covered by your policy, you will have to
pay it from your pocket. There is no zero depreciation facility
in this.  It is not my fault, now for
how many years do insurance companies offer us zero depreciation
and
how many zero depreciation claims can be filed within a year?
Most insurance companies
offer us a zero depreciation add-on within the first 5 years
and it is cheap.
Even after 5 years, there are some companies which will
give you this add-on for 7 years and one or two companies
can even give you a zero depreciation add-on for 9 or 10 years, but this coverage of zero depreciation for the first 5 years can be more
expensive because as
your vehicle gets older, the
liability on the insurance company
increases because they have to pay the claim of the entire MRP,
whereas your vehicle is getting
old now, so the more the age of your vehicle increases, the more expensive
your zero
depreciation add-on will be for you. Now
we have taken this zero depreciation add-on in our policy,
but how many zero depreciation claims can be filed within a year
when friends, you are a normal  If you
take a comprehensive first party insurance policy, that is,
when there is no zero depreciation add-on in it, then the
number of claims in the entire year is
not limited.
You can file any number of claims by deducting the depreciation amount.
But when you
take the zero depreciation add-on, some
companies give you a limit of two zero depreciation claims in the entire year
and some
companies give you unlimited zero depreciation claims.
You can confirm this limit
while renewing your insurance policy.
If you
file a third claim in the policy that has given you two zero depreciation claims, then
zero depreciation will not work in it.
You will get the claim only after deducting the depreciation amount from the third claim. And one
more special thing is that if there is zero depreciation in your previous policy, only then
you can take
zero depreciation add-on while renewing the next policy
and if you are buying a fresh
policy, that is, you have an old policy.  If
not, then
you can take this add-on according to the companies that are offering you zero depreciation add-on.
Now friends, it is being mentioned again and again that if you do
not take zero depreciation then money will be deducted.
For how much this money will be deducted,
IRDA has fixed a fixed slab according to the category of each part. The
first
category of parts is of rubber
nylon parts like tyre,
battery, airbag. The slab of depreciation in this is
50, that is, if you do not take zero depreciation add-
on in your policy, then
you will get a claim for these parts at 50, that is, if a
part worth ₹1 is replaced
during repair, then you will bear ₹5000000 out of that
and ₹5000000
[Music]
that is,
you will get a claim of ₹1000000. The third important
category is of glass parts, that is,
whatever glass part is there inside your vehicle, there will be no claim on it.
Depreciation is also
not charged. No matter how old your vehicle is, you
get the full MRP claim
because as long as the glass is not broken, it is considered new.
No depreciation money will be charged from it
and apart from this, for whatever
category of parts is left including wooden and
metal parts,
money will be deducted from the claim for these parts according to the age of your vehicle. Now, for example,
suppose your vehicle is less than 6 months
old, then
no depreciation will be charged from it, that is,
you will get the full claim amount without zero
depreciation. A Done B If your vehicle is between 6 months
to 1 year old, then
depreciation will be charged at 5%. If it is between 1 year to 2 years old, then at 10%. If it is
between 2 to 3 years old, then at 15%. If it is between 3 to 4 years
old, then at 25%. If it is
between 4 to 5 years old, then at 35%. And if it is 5
to 10 years
old, then at 5%.  If your car gets damaged then you will get claim amount
on 40 and if your car is more than 10 years
old then you will get claim amount on 50 that is
depreciation will be charged on 50
if your car is 10 years old then if
any part is replaced in the car from metal and wooden part or any
repair is done then there is cost of paint also in it so
how much claim will you get for paint
what depreciation will be charged on it suppose the
cost of repairing any part is
₹ 1500000
then this is the material cost of your paint out of this
your depreciation will be charged on 50
you will get 00 as claim
if your paint costs 000
how much money do you get for labour in any repair job
you get 100% of labour cost but it should be reasonable
and customary that is the inflation rate of your city how much
money is charged for repairing any part according to your city
That bill should be the same It is
not that if the garage
writes anything then it is not a complete claim but no
depreciation will be charged
from the labour charges Now friends
comes the final question whether you should take the zero
depreciation add-on or not For this
I want to tell you some important points,
you should think about them carefully and
after that you will be able to take your decision easily The
first point is that if you feel
that if any claim comes in the future and
money should not be deducted from it, brother you should
not have to pay more from your pocket, then for this
you should take the zero depreciation add-on
and you should definitely take it for the first 5 years
because firstly
you get it a little cheaper in the first 5 years and even
if a big claim comes then its
liability also does not come on your pocket
After 5 years you should check
what is your claim history in the last 5 years i.e.
how many claims have you made in the last 5 years
If these are too many
claims then a single claim will become
expensive for you after 5 years  Even if you get it,
you should take zero depreciation,
it will be beneficial for you. But
suppose you have not taken any claim in the last 5 years
or have taken a small claim, then even if
you do not take zero depreciation,
you will be fine because there is not much risk to the vehicle. The
next point comes friends that if
your vehicle is driven less, suppose the vehicle is
multiple cars or the vehicle is parked
or if it is driven, then it is driven a little in the city, if it is
driven 57 km, then there is no big risk.
Some small claim may come on the vehicle,
you can get it repaired from your pocket
or even if you
get the claim after depreciation deduction, then there is no problem, even then
you can skip the zero depreciation add
and the final point is friends that
if you feel that brother, brother, if a claim comes, then you will
bear the depreciation charges from your pocket, the money deducted from your claim amount will be borne from your pocket, then
also you
can skip the zero depreciation add, brother, when  We will
see about it when it comes, but right now your
insurance is getting expensive, if you
cannot tolerate it then also you
can skip zero depreciation, there is
no need to take it, but keep this mindset ready
that some money is definitely going to be deducted from the claim.
So friends, here you saw
how zero depreciation works, how
you will get it, for how many years you will get it and
how many
claims. I have
given you information about the zero depreciation addon. Now
your decision whether to take zero depreciation or not will become
very easy
and even at the time of claim you will know for
which things your money will not be deducted. So
friends, if you liked the information given in the video, if
you liked it, if
you understood it, then
you can like the video to show your love and support.
And if you want to be a part of this family of ours, this
community, then you
can also subscribe to this channel. I,
Harvinder Singh, now take your permission. I will get your permission
in the next video. Till then,
take care of yourself, stay happy and
stay healthy. Jai Hind.